---
title: $.ajax
signature: |
  $.ajax(options) ⇒ XMLHttpRequest
---

Perform an Ajax request. It can be to a local resource, or cross-domain via
[HTTP access control][CORS] support in browsers or [JSONP][].

Options:

* `type` (default: "GET"): HTTP request method ("GET", "POST", or other)
* `url` (default: current URL): URL to which the request is made
* `data` (default: none): data for the request; for GET requests it is appended
  to query string of the URL. Non-string objects will get serialized with
  [$.param](#$.param)
* `processData` (default: true): whether to automatically serialize `data` for
  non-GET requests to string
* `contentType` (default: "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"): the Content-Type
  of the data being posted to the server (this can also be set via `headers`).
  Pass `false` to skip setting the default value.
* `dataType` (default: none): response type to expect from the server ("json", "jsonp", "xml", "html", or "text")
* `timeout` (default: `0`): request timeout in milliseconds, `0` for no timeout
* `headers`: object of additional HTTP headers for the Ajax request
* `async` (default: true): set to `false` to issue a synchronous (blocking) request 
* `global` (default: true): trigger global Ajax events on this request
* `context` (default: window): context to execute callbacks in
* `traditional` (default: false): activate traditional (shallow) serialization
  of `data` parameters with [$.param](#$.param)
* `cache` (default: true): whether the browser should be allowed to cache GET responses

If the URL contains `=?` or `dataType` is "jsonp", the request is performed
by injecting a `<script>` tag instead of using XMLHttpRequest (see [JSONP][]).
This has the limitation of `contentType`, `dataType`, `headers`, and `async` not
being supported.

#### Ajax callbacks

You can specify the following callback functions, which are given in order of execution:

1. `beforeSend(xhr, settings)`: before the request is sent. Provides access to
   the xhr object. Return `false` from the function to cancel the request

2. `success(data, status, xhr)`: when request succeeds

3. `error(xhr, errorType, error)`: if there is an error (timeout, parse error,
   or status code not in HTTP 2xx)

4. `complete(xhr, status)`: after the request is complete, regardless of error
   or success

#### Ajax events

These events are fired during the lifecycle of an Ajax request performed with
the default setting of `global: true`:

1. `ajaxStart` <i>(global)</i>: fired if no other Ajax requests are currently
   active

2. `ajaxBeforeSend` (data: xhr, options): before sending the request; can be
   cancelled

3. `ajaxSend` (data: xhr, options): like `ajaxBeforeSend`, but not cancellable

5. `ajaxSuccess` (data: xhr, options, data): when the response is success

4. `ajaxError` (data: xhr, options, error): when there was an error

6. `ajaxComplete` (data: xhr, options): after request has completed, regardless
   of error or success

7. `ajaxStop` <i>(global)</i>: fired if this was the last active Ajax request

By default, Ajax events are fired on the document object. However, if the
`context` of a request is a DOM node, the events are fired on that node and will
bubble up the DOM. The only exceptions to this are the global events `ajaxStart`
& `ajaxStop`.

{% highlight js %}
$(document).on('ajaxBeforeSend', function(e, xhr, options){
  // This gets fired for every Ajax request performed on the page.
  // The xhr object and $.ajax() options are available for editing.
  // Return false to cancel this request.
})

$.ajax({
  type: 'GET',
  url: '/projects',
  // data to be added to query string:
  data: { name: 'Zepto.js' },
  // type of data we are expecting in return:
  dataType: 'json',
  timeout: 300,
  context: $('body'),
  success: function(data){
    // Supposing this JSON payload was received:
    //   {"project": {"id": 42, "html": "<div>..." }}
    // append the HTML to context object.
    this.append(data.project.html)
  },
  error: function(xhr, type){
    alert('Ajax error!')
  }
})

// post a JSON payload:
$.ajax({
  type: 'POST',
  url: '/projects',
  // post payload:
  data: JSON.stringify({ name: 'Zepto.js' }),
  contentType: 'application/json'
})
{% endhighlight %}


  [cors]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en/http_access_control
  [jsonp]: http://json-p.org
